## Introduction
In the central nervous system, neurons communicate through the release of neurotransmitters at synapses.
This process relies on synaptic vesicle (SV) exocytosis, i.e. the fusion of SVs with the plasma membrane (PM).
This in turn is eminently important for normal brain function such as movement coordination or memory formation.
SV exocytosis involves a sequence of steps [@doi:10.1111/j.1600-0854.2008.00759.x; @doi:10.1016/j.neuron.2013.10.022].
The vesicle is docked to the active zone (AZ) PM and the exocytosis machinery goes through a maturation process, termed priming, after which the SV is ready to fuse.
These SVs form the readily releasable pool (RRP) of SVs.
Finally, a calcium influx triggers fusion of the SV with the PM.
Docked SVs are defined as the SVs in very close proximity or direct contact with the PM as observed by electron microscopy (EM), whereas priming refers to SV ability to undergo exocytosis immediately upon stimulation.
Whether every docked SV is also primed has been debated [@doi:10.1111/j.1600-0854.2008.00759.x; @doi:10.1016/j.conb.2016.12.012;@doi:10.1016/j.neuron.2014.10.009].
A high-pressure freezing/freeze-substitution EM study of genetically modified synapses has indicated that vesicles that are in direct contact with the PM, i.e.
docked, are also primed and belong to the RRP and that this situation occurs downstream of vesicle tethering [@doi:10.1016/j.neuron.2014.10.009].
From a molecular perspective, priming involves several proteins, including the SNARE complex (SNAP-25, syntaxin-1, and synaptobrevin-2), Munc13, Munc18, synaptotagmin-1, and complexin [@doi:10.1016/j.neuron.2013.10.022;@doi:10.1146/annurev-biophys-060414-034057].
All three SNAREs form a highly stable tight four-helix bundle, known as trans-SNARE complex.
The surfaces of the SV and the PM, respectively, are negatively charged and therefore tend to repulse each other.
The formation of the trans-SNARE complex counteracts this repulsion and brings the SV and the PM in high proximity [@doi:10.1038/26412].
Evidence has suggested that the SNARE complex is only partially zipped in primed SVs [@doi:10.1038/sj.emboj.7601003].
Furthermore, various studies have suggested that the formation of at least three SNARE complexes provides the necessary energy for a SV to become fusion-competent [@doi:10.1074/jbc.M109.047381;@doi:10.1126/science.1193134;@doi:10.1126/science.1214984].
Yet in the absence of cytoplasmic Ca^2+^, minimal spontaneous exocytosis takes place.
When the presynaptic terminal gets depolarized by an action potential, Ca^2+^ flows in the cytoplasm and binds to synaptotagmin-1, which is localized at the SV surface.
Upon Ca^2+^ binding, synaptotagmin-1 was proposed to insert between the head groups of the PM anionic phospholipids and trigger membrane curvature and destabilization, leading first to hemifusion and subsequently to fusion[@doi:10.1016/j.cell.2010.02.017].
Interestingly, much of the trans-SNARE bundle surface is negatively charged, which contributes to the electrostatic barrier that minimizes spontaneous fusion and allows synaptotagmin-1 to act as an electrostatic switch that triggers exocytosis [@doi:10.1016/j.celrep.2019.01.103].
Introducing negatively charged side chains by site-directed mutagenesis reduces the rate of spontaneous and evoked exocytosis whereas introducing more positive side chains enhances the rate of spontaneous exocytosis and depletes the RRP.

Cryo-electron tomography (cryo-ET), which preserves samples to atomic resolution, revealed that under resting conditions, no SV is in direct contact with the PM and the majority of AZ-proximal SVs are connected to the PM by a variable number of short tethers [@doi:10.1083/jcb.200908082; @doi:10.1016/j.sbi.2019.01.008].
The observed gap between the SV and the PM is consistent with the model of an electrostatic barrier formed by the negative charges of the SV, the PM, and the trans-SNARE bundle [@doi:10.1016/j.celrep.2019.01.103].
In synaptosomes treated with hypertonic sucrose solution, which depletes the RRP, the majority of tethered vesicles had only 1 or 2 tethers [@pmid:8663996; @doi:10.1074/jbc.M504137200; @doi:10.1083/jcb.200908082].
This observation suggested that the RRP consists of SV that are linked to the PM by 3 or more tethers.
The RRP, as identified by morphological criteria, only represents a minority of AZ-proximal vesicles.
This is in agreement with previous reports.
In one of them the term pre-primed pool was used for the few vesicles (~1 vesicle at hippocampal synapses) that are rapidly released and another publication showed that the immediately releasable pool is made up of only 10-20% of the vesicles located on the AZ (equal to ~1 vesicle on hippocampal synapses) [@doi:10.1111/j.1469-7793.2001.0481i.x; @doi:10.1523/JNEUROSCI.5231-04.2005].
The ensemble of proximal vesicles that are not in the RRP have been termed non-RRP and presumably belong to the recycling pool that releases more slowly [@doi:10.1083/jcb.200908082; @doi:10.3389/fnsyn.2010.00135].
Farther away from the AZ, partially intermixed with the recycling pool, is the reserve pool containing vesicles that only release upon high frequency stimulation.
Vesicles in the reserve pool are tightly clustered and well inter-connected by structures that were termed connectors [@doi:10.1083/jcb.200908082; @doi:10.3389/fnsyn.2010.00135].
It should be noted that the molecular nature of connectors is not known and is possibly heterogenous.
Synapsin has been proposed as a molecular constituent but since the deletion of all forms of synapsin does not lead to the complete absence of connectors, it is clear that not all connectors contain synapsin [@doi:10.1083/jcb.108.1.111; @doi:10.1523/JNEUROSCI.1773-07.2007].
The second row of SVs near the active zone, immediately after the proximal vesicles, is called the intermediate region.
Resting state intermediate SVs are less densely packed and also less connected than proximal SVs [@doi:10.1016/j.sbi.2019.01.008].
This suggests that, after exocytosis of RRP SVs, intermediate SVs could be rapidly recruited in the RRP by diffusion [@doi:10.7554/eLife.15133].
Synaptic activity enhances the mobility of a fraction of SVs, whereas it induces synapsin dissociation from SVs in a synapsin phosphorylation-dependent manner [@doi:10.1523/JNEUROSCI.0383-17.2017; @doi:10.1038/nn756].
The same mobility enhancement can be achieved through inhibition of synapsin dephosphorylation, which leads to synapsin dissociation from SVs, or by knocking out all three synapsin forms [@doi:10.1083/jcb.108.5.1863; @doi:10.1529/biophysj.105.061663; @doi:10.1523/JNEUROSCI.5058-11.2012].
Interestingly, ribbon synapses do not express synapsin and show higher SV mobility than conventional synapses [@doi:10.1016/j.cub.2003.12.053].
It is therefore conceivable that inter-SV connectors restrain SV diffusion and that synaptic activity influences the level of inter-SV connectivity and thereby their mobility.

To investigate this hypothesis and to better understand the impact of depolarization and synaptic activity on SV tethering, we designed two sets of cryo-ET experiments.
On the one hand, we compared the morphology of wild-type rat synaptosome in resting state and a few milliseconds after depolarization.
On the other hand, to study the consequences of increased or decreased spontaneous synaptic activity, we imaged synapses in mice neuronal culture expressing either wild-type SNAP-25, a more positively charged SNAP-25 mutant (4K mutant), or a more negatively charged mutant of SNAP-25 (4E mutant) [@doi:10.1016/j.celrep.2019.01.103].
The more positive SNAP-25 mutant, which is constitutively active showed no triple-tethered SV, which confirmed the morphological definition of the RRP.
Our experiments revealed that immediately after depolarization additional SVs are recruited to the RRP.
Shortly after exocytosis the level of inter-SV connectivity was decreased among SVs situated in a 25 to 75-nm distance range from the AZ PM.
Altogether, our results indicate that connectors regulate SV mobility and their recruitment at the AZ PM.


