## Supplementary Material {.page_break_before}

### Supplementary Figures
![(A, B) Tomographic slice without (A) and with (B) segmentation of synaptosome with late fusion events.
(C,D) Tomographic slice without (C) and with (D) segmentation of WT SNAP-25 neurons.
Segmentation colors: off-white = cell outline; pink = active zone; blue = synaptic vesicles; green = mitochondria; yellow = connectors, red = tethers
Scale bar, 100 nm
](images/tomogram_slices.png){#fig:suppl_tomogram_slices width="15cm" tag="S1"}

![(A, B) Histogram of the number of tethers per proximal SV. 
(C, D) Histogram of  the number of connectors per proximal non-RRP SV.
(E, F) Histogram of the number of connectors per RRP SV.
(G, H) Histogram of connected SV amongst tethered or non-tethered proximal SVs.
(I, J) Histogram of connected SV amongst proximal non-RRP or RRP SVs.
(A, C, E, G, I) Synapses in mouse cultured neurons.
(B, D, F, H, J) Rat synaptosomes.
](images/2201_Supplement2.png){#fig:suppl_histograms width="15cm" tag="S2"}

![(A, B) Tomographic slices showing tethered connected vesicles, blue arrows highlight the connectors.
Scale bar, 50 nm
](images/supplementary_connected_vesicles.png){#fig:suppl_connected_slices width="8cm" tag="S3"}


### Supplementary Movies
<p id="vid:synaptosome">
<video
  controls
  width="100%"
  alt="Tomogram with segmentation of synaptosome with late fusion events"
>
  <source
    src="images/spray1_raw2seg3.mp4"
    type="video/mp4"
  >
</video>
**Movie S1: Tomogram with segmentation of synaptosome with late fusion events.**
off-white = cell outline; pink = active zone; blue = synaptic vesicles; green = mitochondria; light green = cytomatrix; yellow = connectors, red = tethers, scale bar 100nm
</p>

<p id="vid:neuron">
<video
  controls
  width="100%"
  alt="Tomogram with segmentation of WT SNAP-25 neurons"
>
  <source
    src="images/neuron73_rawseg2.mp4"
    type="video/mp4"
  >
</video>
**Movie S2: Tomogram with segmentation of WT SNAP-25 neurons.**
off-white= cell outline; pink = active zone; blue = synaptic vesicles; green = mitochondria; light green = cytomatrix; yellow = connectors, red = tethers, scale bar 100nm
</p>
