## Author contributions

JR, RS, JBS, and BZ designed the study. 
JR, RS, and Anna K performed the experiments.
KG provided access to and assistance at one of the Titan Krios microscopes.
JR, RS, and BZ analyzed the data.
VL, UL, and Amin K contributed to the Pyto analysis.
JR, RS, JBS, and BZ wrote the manuscript with contribution from all authors.
JBS and BZ supervised the project.

## Acknowledgments

We would like to thank Marek Kamínek for maintaining the electron microscope and supporting its use in Bern, and Tillmann Hanns Pape for support in specimen preparation and electron microscope operation in Copenhagen. 
Data was acquired on a machine supported by the [Microscopy Imaging Center (MIC) of the University of Bern](https://www.mic.unibe.ch/), a machine supported by the [Core Facility for Integrated Microscopy (CFIM) of the University of Copenhagen](https://cfim.ku.dk/publications/), and a machine supported by the Center for Cellular Imaging and NanoAnalytics, Biozentrum, University of Basel.
This work was supported by grants from the Swiss National Science Foundation (179520 to BZ and P2BEP3_172242 to JR), ERA-NET NEURON (grant NEURON-119 to BZ), the Novo Nordisk Fonden (NNF17OC0028516 to JBS), the Carlsbergfondet (CF17-0875 to JBS), the Independent Research Fond Denmark (8020-00228A to JBS), and the Lundbeckfonden (R277-2018-802 to JBS).

## Disclosure and competing interests statement

The authors declare no competing interests.

## Data Availability Section

This study includes no data deposited in external repositories.

## References {.page_break_before}

<!-- Explicitly insert bibliography here -->
<div id="refs"></div>
